The thing to do right now is to run as
fast as you can.
This is Bill Gurley, the legend who
backed Uber and Zillow, who's lived
through every major tech cycle for over
25 years, and he says this one is
different.
>> So, there is a so much disruption coming
from this new technology that if you
don't take control of your own career
path, you're likely at risk. We did a
survey where we asked people, if you
could go back in time and start your
career over again, would you do
something different? And six out of 10
said, yes. Before AI, the wrong career
choice cost you years. With AI, the cost
becomes colossal. We have this window of
opportunity that's closing, so we should
be working really, really hard right now
to grasp this opportunity. How much time
do we have?
>> Like, I would warn all of your listeners
that
Bill,
welcome to Silicon Valley Girl. Thanks
for having me on. Greatly appreciate it.
Thank you. I had a question planned, but
there's news that just came out.
>> Oh, no. Block, the parent company
Jack Dorsey, is laying off nearly half
of its staff in deliberate and bold
embrace of AI. Yeah. Should people be
scared? Well, I'm going to say yes, but
I'm going to qualify it a little bit.
And the AI tools are out there. They've
been out there for two or three years
now. They're not going to be put back in
the box. They're not going to go away.
My advice, which is very straightforward
for anyone in any field, to protect
yourself against AI, be the most AI
enabled version of yourself possible.
Okay. And know what it's possible of in
your field. Know the edge of what it's
possible of in your field.
Um, use it as much as you possibly can,
cuz one thing I've learned, just in my
own endeavors, that the types of prompts
that you think of giving it increased
the more you use it. Like, you start to
understand what it's capable of. And so,
any lack of leaning into it means you're
getting further behind against people
that are
that are. It's new in that it's hitting
white-collar workers, which I think
people had viewed those jobs as safe, um
which may have been a mistake. And and
look, if if you've been replaced, I
would really, and this gets into this
new book I'm
releasing, I would ask yourself, is that
the role you really loved and wanted to
be in? And if not, maybe this is an
opportunity for you to go find that.
Okay, so yeah, we're going to see a lot
of this type of news. You said that
playing it safe, and you mentioned safe
jobs, we considered them safe. We
thought intelligence is something that's
going to get us through our lives. Um
you say safe is now the highest risk
move. Can you explain?
>> the unfortunate reality is that many
advisors and counselors and parents push
people towards jobs that they thought of
as safe. And the reason I say it's
unfortunate isn't because of AI. If
you're unfulfilled at work, there's a
2023 Gallup poll study that came out and
said over 50% of people aren't actively
engaged at work. And the number that
qualifies engaged is like 23%. So, if
you're in these roles you don't really
care that much about and you're not
pushing yourself to improve, you're kind
of a sitting duck anyway like for these
things. And I personally believe that
all those parents were quite
well-intentioned
and very
um worried about the economic stability
and viability of their children's lives.
But, the truth of the matter is you only
get one shot at this life. If you can
find something that you're just insanely
curious about, you're going to
differentiate yourself
so much greater than everyone that's
around you. I think in many aspects of
life,
um
the the economic part comes along if
you're really great at what you do. Can
you Can you give me three traits of a
person who doesn't play it safe? What do
they do daily? Well, first of all, I
think having one I think the
the number one reason I wrote this book
was to give permission give people
permission to chase a job they might not
have thought was either possible or that
they might have thought someone would
try and talk them out of. And there's
examples in the book of that. Danny
Meyer, who's a famous restaurant tour in
New York and the man that started Shake
Shack.
His uncle told him he should go be a
restaurant tour, but he was on a path,
poly-sci major, salesman, taking the
LSAT, going to go be a lawyer. And his
father had had some problems with
economic trouble in businesses related
to restaurants and it pushed him away
from it. His uncle is the one that kind
of brought him back.
But his uncle told him, "You know, all
you do
all weekend long is search for the best
restaurants and even journal."
Apparently, since he was a kid, he
journaled about restaurants. But he
never given himself the permission to
think of it as a career and go after it.
And the reason you're more protected is
if you adore something, you're just
constantly learning for free. Yeah. Like
you're not spending like
the second principle in the book is hone
your craft and I talk about continuous
learning and many people I think
unfortunately learn in school and they
think, "Oh, I'm done now. I'll go work."
But the best are just always learning
about what they do. And for the best
that are
hyper curious about that subject area,
there's they gain energy in absorbing
that new information. Whereas if you're
forced to go to a class on something you
don't like, you lose energy. It feels
tedious. Yeah. Which is a great test as
to whether you're tilting against the
the right the right thing or not. So
basically, don't listen to everyone
around you.
Uh I mean, he used extreme forms of
this. I I I to meet Rick Rubin. He said,
"Every single career decision he's made
in his life, people around him told him
not to do it, and they were all the best
decision he possibly I mean, you can
take that to an extreme, right? Like,
don't just go, you know, on quixotic
pursuits, but I think if you become 100%
convinced that you want to go try
something, and and I have test in here
for whether you're really passionate at
that level, um then yeah, I think you
should go try. Like, and I think I think
you'll find you're more successful and
more fulfilled. And I like the
continuous free learning. So, you're
learning not because you're required to,
but because it's your passion. You spend
>> curious about it.
>> Yeah, and you can't And you've met
people I know that are like that. I
think everyone's met people that are
like that. Silicon Valley's
full of a lot of people like that, uh
especially about new technologies. So,
you know, you read an article about
Clawbot, and you just can't not Yeah.
you know, boot one and try and figure
out what it does. And And if you're that
type of person, you're in the right
lane. Like, like you're so fascinated by
the subject that you have to know what's
on the edge. Yeah. And by the way, it's
interesting to think about the edge as a
place that's safe from AI. So, AI and
large language models are recording like
all the best practices that have been
written down. But, the stuff that's on
the edge, that's that's being discovered
today, is not in the models. And so, if
you're competing by being a person who
has that knowledge in any field that
hasn't been written down yet, you're
you're out in front of what these models
are capable of. Yeah, and through trying
new things. Yes. I feel like Yeah.
We talk about AI tools constantly, but
honestly, most of us don't feel the real
value until we see it applied to
something very, very specific that
changes everything. Something we
actually do every day. So, let's talk
about outreach. If you're a creator, you
need brand deals. If you're in sales,
you need leads. If you're a founder, you
need investors, partners, customers. And
right now, done properly, LinkedIn
outreach takes 10 to 15 hours a week.
Every single week. This is exactly where
AI changes the math. And LinkedHelper is
the concrete example I want to show you.
Most tools are cloud-based. LinkedIn
flags them very fast. This one is
desktop native. It runs through a real
browser, mimics actual human behavior.
That's the only way to scale this safely
in 2026. But what I find the most
interesting is what happens when you
connect it to an AI layer and an end
cloud. And instead of sending the same
message to 500 people, it reads each
person's bio, writes something specific
to them. That level of personalization
at scale wasn't physically possible a
year ago. $8.25
per month. You get scaled outreach. And
instead of your team spending 10 hours a
week on manual clicking, they're
spending it on work that actually moves
the needle
and requires creativity. This is exactly
what Bill was talking about. AI as a
jetpack, not a replacement. You still
build the relationships. You just don't
waste the hours getting to them. Setup
guide and templates are in the
description with the free trial
available. All right, let's get back to
the interview with Bill.
Since you've been investing for a while,
and I know you recently stopped, but
what benchmark VC will consider not
playing it safe when looking at a
founder?
Well, actually, I think that the venture
industry writ large has has learned that
that you would never
um
have a a mindset of safety around
choosing a founder. I I think the best
and the brightest uh are very
independently minded. Um they think
outside of the box naturally. Um I think
if anyone feels
Some of them are so dogmatically
determined that they they might come
across as as a bit, you know, crazy
actually. And I think I'm not the only
one that would say this. I think if you
go study what what venture capitalists
have written, there's a there's there's
almost a search for that type of
persona.
And it goes back to like the Steve Jobs
ad about the crazy ones, you know. It
feels like everyone right now should be
adopting this crazy mindset to succeed
in this world because it you're becoming
the entrepreneur in your life, right?
>> yeah, there's a I think that's a great
way of saying it. There is a um
especially in certain fields, there is a
so much disruption coming from this new
technology that if you don't take
control of your your own career path,
then you're you're likely at risk. And I
I I've often said if you're high agency
if you're a high agency individual who's
who has confidence about driving their
own career path, these tools are
actually a jetpack. Like you if you if
you want to proactively learn, there's
been no time in the history of the world
where you can learn faster. And you
know, it's it's AI, but it's also
podcasts like the stuff you do.
There's interviews all over YouTube. You
like you can learn faster than ever
before. But if you're if you're This is
part of why I um react poorly to the AI
anxiety because that might freeze you,
and then you're not like like the thing
to do right now is to run as fast as you
can. Yeah, but I also wanted to
dig deeper into anxiety because you said
something that gives me a lot of
anxiety. Sometimes I scroll and I hear
people, including you, say, "We have
this window of opportunity that's
closing, so we should be working really
really hard right now Yeah. to grasp
this opportunity." Can you elaborate on
that? How much time we have? How much
should we be working?
>> Well, I don't think I don't think the
window is necessarily closing. I just
think that this tool
kind of came out of so fast and it's
capable of so many different things that
it's it really behooves any individual
to figure out what it's capable of in
their industry, in their role. And and
once again, to be the person in the
organization who knows the most about
that Mhm.
>> possible. But do you think we might only
have like a couple of years before I
change
>> believe in that. No, I I I'm I'm not a
big fan of these dystopian narratives.
There's some interesting research you
could go look up that the the uh the
anxiety this dystopian anxiety is like
five times higher in the US than in
China. Oh, really? Yeah, I think part of
the problem and I I don't fully
understand the motivation, but some of
like Dario's the biggest doomer of all
and he's got the microphone all the
time.
>> Yeah. And it's kind of weird and
[clears throat] I don't think it's
healthy for all the reasons we already
discussed. So, I wish I wish [snorts] I
wish that weren't happening. But maybe
also sometimes when I see those
headlines, I'm like, maybe I should
double down, work more. Why not? Like
it's it's also has a positive angle to
it, right?
>> Yes, it could it could it could spur
people into action. It could. But but
but it also could freeze them, which
which we already discussed. Totally. And
something also that that you said that
unlearning what made you successful
before is really important. How do you
So, for me, for example, I'm a very hard
working person. I would say yes to every
brand deal because I'm used to it and I
realized that
probably, but I'm not sure, probably the
next stage of my growth will happen when
I learn how to say no. Yeah. How do you
decide and how do you actually do it?
How do you unlearn? There's a great
quote uh
strong opinions loosely held and I I
really love that that idea. So, if you
don't have strong opinions, it's very
difficult to actually get out there and
run every day and and accomplish things.
But, don't don't view any of them as
sacred. Like, don't think of anything as
hard and fast and might never change.
And I think if you develop the habit of
being a continuous learner
and know that there's a risk of this
thing, then you're you probably are best
prepared to know when to let go of
something. I know that it may may not be
definitive, but like I think I think
awareness that it could be a problem is
probably the most helpful thing
possible.
>> Yeah, so when you start noticing it's
actually in your way. Yeah.
So, in your book,
uh you talked about six principles.
Uh chase your curiosity. And this is
where I paused because I'm like, "Okay,
I'm curious about so many things.
There's this hype and that hype. I want
to study this and this."
How do you pick out curiosity that that
you can push for for years and it
becomes your career?
>> Yeah, there's a whole bunch of that
chapter that you mentioned chase your
curiosity. I I went out and studied all
the best practices in the field and
there's like 10 different
exercises you can run to try that I
borrowed from these other great people
that have done the research. Um you
know, hobbies are a big one. There's a
lot of stories in the book of people
that turned hobbies into careers and
became very successful. Like, if there's
this thing that you're doing in your
spare time at home. When I was an
engineer for for 2 and 1/2 years,
um I read this book One Up On Wall
Street by Peter Lynch and I started
studying stocks and trading stocks when
I got home at night. I
I didn't say to myself, "Oh, maybe
that's a sign." But, it was, right? And
I ended up going to work on Wall Street.
Like, and so look look out for for
whatever it is that fascinates you.
Um don't feel stuck. Like, or don't feel
like you have to have an answer to the
question. Some of these people uh didn't
find their perfect fit until they're 30
or 40. And so get as many shots on goal.
Like it's fine to take a job where you
don't know if that's it. And but ask
wake up and ask yourself every year. So
is this it? Is this what I want to do
the rest of my life? I had a mental
exercise
that I did in my first two stops in my
career where I at a couple years in I
said, do I see myself doing this 30
years from now?
And how do I feel about that? Mhm. Just
a kind of a reflection. And in the first
two cases I got to a place where I
immediately knew the answer was no. Mhm.
I love that question.
>> And then you start looking for something
else. Bezos had a similar thing he
called the regret minimization framework
where he said imagine your 80-year-old
self giving you advice on helping with a
career choice. No. And they're similar
in some ways. You're just reflecting
over time. Yeah. And when you studied
those people who are not happy with
their jobs, apparently it's six out of
10, right? What do you think was the
number one mistake that they made? Were
they chasing money? I also write a
newsletter where I go deeper on AI tools
that I use, career strategies, and
things I can't fit into 60-minute
podcast. It's free. Link is in the
description. I think so. I mean chasing
money or or just doing like like we we
actually we did a survey where we asked
people if you could go back in time and
start your career over again, would you
do something different? And six out of
10 said yes. And then we would ask them,
what did you use in the decision making?
And you know, it might be you're at
college and a professor tells you, oh
you should go into this cuz you made an
A on an accounting exam or something or
or your parents there are certain
cultures where parents like you got to
be a doctor, you got to be a lawyer and
you end up in that path. Like there's a
bunch of different ways you you end up
in a pathway where it wasn't an exercise
of you saying, "What is it that I would
love to spend my life doing?" Yeah. And
so, it
is a whole I think many of these parents
and counselors are very
well-intentioned. I don't think they're
out to to make a mistake. A lot of them
are worried about the economic stability
of the child.
>> 100%.
>> you become a parent, like it's this
thing that you can't really get out of
your head.
>> So, are there any jobs that you would
name, like top three jobs that are
AI-resistant and top three jobs that
will make it? Well, the jobs that that
seem to me the earliest threats are ones
where So, the large language model is
really good at language. And so,
translation, paralegals, like these
>> I started with language.
>> [laughter]
>> That's That was my whole career.
>> Yeah, I mean, those things are are
really, you know, where you're just
organizing text in a different way.
Um the those are those are already it's
already happening.
>> Yeah. You know, I think some of the jobs
that I have this interesting theory
where almost any job you could think of
it as being an artisan. We all think of
Michelangelo as an artisan, and we
probably think of a great athlete as an
artisan, but do you think of a lawyer
that way or do you think of And I would
say the best in those fields probably
probably are. And so, what is it they
do? Um they understand nuance in their
[snorts] field quite a bit, and I think
AI is not particularly good at nuance.
Um a lot of people have a theory that
that I think is reasonable that that
human relationships will matter way
more. So, do you have a strong peer
network? Do you have a strong mentor
network? Do you have a strong
network in general of people who come to
you or know you or what you're capable
of? Um that that I think that's super
helpful. Any other markets that you
think are dying? Um dying? Um well, I
mean, coding is one where there's a lot
of questions that are out there and I
think once again, you you know,
the thing about code is it's actually a
stricter more constrained version of
language than language itself.
Right?
>> you think we'll need less coders?
Certainly, if you were the person who
was just grinding writing out code. If
you were the person that understood,
>> [snorts]
>> you know, structurally how one
algorithm's better than the other or how
to reduce code to make something more
efficient. Like those things I think
will still be valuable.
But I would go back to saying the best
way to be a software engineer in AI
world is to be the one that knows how
all the new AI tools work.
>> Yeah. To be the person in your org
that's leaning into them not out. Like
you're
If you're a farmer with a tractor and a
drone thing and all this stuff, you're
going to run over a farmer with a hoe
and a and a donkey, right? You're just
going to blow them away. And so, you
have to think that way about these
tools. This one came out of this fast, I
admit. Um but you have to you have to
roll around in it.
Uh let's talk about the tools. You said
at the beginning of our podcast, become
the best AI-enabled version of yourself.
>> Can you talk about the setup? Because we
all we're all using ChatGPT for search.
We use Nana banana to generate images.
We do basic stuff, right? We maybe plan
our trips. What is the next step? What
should people be doing to advance their
setup?
>> Even like when I come on a podcast, I
can say, "I'm going to go see this
person, do this podcast, and we're going
to talk about the book. What questions
should I anticipate?" And it's like this
is my Like the more you play with it,
the more you think about what's possible
to do. And And I was
>> [snorts]
>> I was at NYU yesterday and and the
students were asking questions at the
end and like half the questions they
asked, I'd be like, "Well, you could ask
me that, but I'd probably put that into
ChatGPT."
Like I just they don't think like
people don't realize how much you can
lean on it. And that's where I think the
more you roll around on it, the more you
start to use it. And I've been invited
to to go to give a TED Talk, so I have a
new one on that.
>> Oh, are you going to go in April? I'll
be there, too. I'll watch your talk.
>> All right. And then and I'm like
re- you can research and prototype and
ideate like simultaneously. I came up
with a new theme last night, kicked off
something this morning cuz I wanted it
to find like 20 examples of this idea I
had and wanted to talk about to to make
it better. Mhm. And I haven't looked at
the results yet, but I will later.
>> So, you're basically living in in cloud
project? Yeah, I mean, I those were chat
GPT, but yeah, but you could yeah, I
mean, you're probably better to try them
all. What What is something that you do
with AI now that you've done manually
before and now you can never do it
manually? Almost any information query
whatsoever. Like, it just seems easier
than than looking it up. And even like
compared to a Wikipedia search or
something, like, you can just get
straight to the information versus like
scrolling through this thing. Yeah. I
haven't set up a claw bot yet or started
getting it to do agentic work on my
behalf. I probably should. Mhm. Part of
raising my hand and and stepping away
from VC is is because I grew tired of
like that constant FOMO that's required
to be successful. Yeah. Well, yeah,
that's that's that's a strong one. Let's
talk about
uh just in general for for people who
are building since you were investing in
them. Do you think software is dead? I
don't.
Why? Um
there are certain And And look, I think
there are certain types of software that
may be if once again, if if all the
software did was reorient text or or,
you know, create an image or whatever,
like, you could be under threat. The The
thing is like, quite frankly,
it's [snorts] not really good at being a
database and it's not great at math yet.
And there's new techniques where they're
getting it to write code, but how many
times have you done a query where
there's an error? And once again,
depending on the type of software, you
wouldn't want it writing errors into
your CRM.
>> Absolutely. Sometimes I think about the
future where now I mostly talk to my
Claude or ChatGPT. What if I just ask it
to create an app for me to solve some
particular problem and I don't need to
install any apps? Think about consumer
apps, right? I know of like a fitness
tracker,
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah. language learning,
right? Exam prep. SAT was just released
on Gemini. So, I'm thinking like there's
this whole market that's probably going
to disappear. That could be true. That
could be right. And but but it's
happened in the past. There used to be
software companies that had massive
market share that don't exist anymore.
So, yeah. How should entrepreneurs be
thinking about what they're building?
Every great entrepreneur
recognizes that new technology waves
create a ton of opportunity. And one of
the reasons Silicon Valley gets so
excited when these waves happen, I mean,
every single venture capitalist, I'm
sure that you talked to, all they want
to talk about is AI, right? They don't I
think they've forgotten about the
companies they invested in that aren't
AI. That's all they want to talk about.
And the reason they have so much
attention to it is because the time when
new companies,
you know, step around and take market
share for incumbents are on these
transitions. And everyone knows it. And
so, I'm going to sound so redundant, but
you got to get out there and play with
it. Like, I would I would warn
all of your listeners that it's very
hard right now to raise venture capital
for non-AI plays. I like to separate
whether you're judging that from the
reality of to go back to this circle of
influence thing. The reality is most
venture capitalists won't take a a with
a non-AI company right now. Now, you
could decide I'm I'm going to do it any
I think complaining about that's useless
cuz it is the reality. Um you could
decide, well, I'm going to It'd be a
great time to bootstrap one of those
companies cuz VCs aren't paying
attention. I think that's a reasonable
re you know, response to that. But you
need to be aware of that.
>> Yeah. Like otherwise, you're going to
get very disappointed when you go out
and try and raise money. Yeah. And you
you left the VC world, you know, right
at the you know, it's it's all hype talk
right now. Everything's happening. I
feel like a lot of people are like you,
especially when we're talking about
people who chose safer careers, right?
And now they they don't know what to do
and like erratic behaviors and
everything. And I I really like that you
said in your book you need to and
something you keep bringing up in this
interview, you should be surrounding
yourself with the right people, with the
right news that you're consuming to stay
calm and focused and motivated. Any tips
on surrounding yourself with mentors?
Yes, well, mentors and I have another
chapter on peers, but but let let's take
mentors first. I think most people if
you if you're in if you're in the mentor
game, most people shoot too high and
they go try and get someone who's not
going to say yes to spend 5 minutes with
them and and I
I would really caution against that type
of activity and I would instead do two
different things. Take advantage of all
this incredible free information that's
out there and build a list of what I
would call aspirational mentors. So,
these are people you admire in your
field and just study them. Like create a
Google Doc, I don't care what like and
you know, find the podcast they're on,
find books, find YouTube interviews, ask
AI about them and just build like a
digital profile of each one of them and
be a fanboy the way someone might be of
LeBron James, right? And I think that
exercise will give you more confidence.
It'll give you
It also test whether this is the thing
you're curious about or not. If that
sounds tedious, what I just described,
this you're not in that
>> I think it's It sounds really exciting.
I'm then I'm thinking you can do this
for your whole like dream career, right?
Or you like I'm trying to be this. Here
Here are the people that are already
doing this. Here is I don't know what
are my dream house.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, Danny Meyer did this.
Like when he when he decided he was
going to go be a restaurant tour, he
built these 10 profiles of these people.
And like I think it I think that
exercise of ruminating in that is super
helpful. It makes you gives you
confidence that it that it's achievable.
It helps It's disinhibiting that this
may be a tough way to go. And then on on
real mentors, just come down the ladder
a couple rungs. If you're the first
person that calls someone and ask them
to be a mentor and no one else has asked
them that before, they're going to be
flattered that you recognize who they
were. But how do you ask them? You're
like reach out to them and say like,
"Hey, could you be my mentor?" Or you
ask a specific question? Well, there's
some nuance to that as well. So I
wouldn't walk up to someone and say,
"Will you be my mentor?" And they're
like, "You're crazy. That's a lot of
[laughter] weight." Yeah, I think you
approach people with recognition of who
they are and an off this authenticity. I
wouldn't be overly like programmed as
you go in and with a with a smaller ask
to start the relationship. "Hey, I'm
working on this problem. You know,
there's these two paths that I'm sure
you've thought about this before. Any
advice on what I should do?" Yeah. And
when you mentioned that a lot of people
ask you things they could ask ChatGPT,
I'm thinking
before asking people to become your
mentor and ask answer this question,
create a project with all their
knowledge base and ask that project.
>> You You can You can have a virtual
mentor. You can tell tell AI to
You can dump a book, dump an interview,
dump a transcript and create a project
around an individual. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I do that a lot. AI is my
strategic partner 100%. [laughter]
Really really helpful. But I let me also
mention this this separate chapter on
peers cuz this is my favorite chapter in
the book and it's a human um connection
that I think most people don't do. I
would [snorts] just heavily encourage
anybody, whatever rung of the ladder
you're on in your career journey, try
and find four to six like-minded people
on the same journey, hopefully outside
your organization. Um they need to be
trustworthy, they need to be comfortable
sharing, and create a peer group. Mhm.
You know, and and once again, these
tools they're so available like you can
do a WhatsApp or you could create a
Google space. If you're really, you
know, inspired you could do a Slack
whatever, but you create one of these
things where you all share ideas
together and it increases the surface
area for learning, it increases your
mentor opportunities, your network.
You'll see more job possibilities
through everybody. They'll be there for
you when you're having a crappy day.
Like cuz this is really important. Like
everyone has bad days. You might be in a
in a job where you don't know if it's me
or the company I'm in. Like I'm having
I'm not happy here, but is it is it
because I don't love this career path or
is cuz I don't love this company? If you
have five other people that you talk to,
you they they may help you figure that
out. Yeah, I I did that as a YouTuber.
Like having other YouTubers just
brainstorm ideas in your niche.
>> And there's a story in here about a one
YouTuber named Jimmy Donaldson that did
this at the end.
>> the one who started all of this and we
just copied [laughter] him. But he was
doing the same thing.
>> cuz yeah, I think he shared it at a
conference and I thought, "Oh my god, I
should be doing this, too."
>> Yes. Yes. This is a very interesting
time, right? And I have two kids, a
6-year-old and a 4-year-old. I was
raised uh by my Soviet parents. Tell me
you have to study, study, and study.
That's the only way to grow, that's the
only way to build a sustainable life.
So, I was studying from 8:30 a.m. to
8:30 p.m.
>> Yeah.
Will this still apply in today's world
to our kids or should I be teaching them
something completely different?
>> think the culture you came from is a
little different than than what's true
here. But, I still think I think the
thing that's happened in North America,
which is a version of that, is it's
become so hard to get into universities
here that starting in the sixth grade
parents are worried about it. Jonathan
Haidt calls it the resume arms race.
You're worried about them getting into
college, so you want your college
application. Yeah, yeah.
They stop worrying about the college
application. And here here instead I
think it might be better if they just
studied 12 hours instead. Here, you add
in chess lessons, lacrosse lessons, like
volunteering at the SPCA. You're like
And these kids are so scheduled. Like
And I I What I fear is that they get to
the end of the college and they're just
burned out like because they've been
told
Angela Duckworth says they've been
taught to persevere. Like like we've
trained
>> Isn't it good?
Um the area where it might not be good
is if they never take a breath to
explore and figure out what they want to
do. It used to be in the US college
system they wouldn't allow you to pick a
major until the end of your sophomore
year. Now at many schools you have to
apply to the major as part of the
application process. And so we're we're
asking people to specialize earlier and
earlier and then maybe they never had a
chance to really figure out what it is
they enjoy. And they might have fallen
into one of those pathways for random
reasons like we talked about before. So,
what would be your advice to modern
parents? Take a deep deep breath
and create as much
opportunity for exploration as possible
for the kids. Just expose them to a lot
of different things. And try and get a
sense of genuine interest on their part.
Yeah. You know. Love it. Okay, if
someone's watching right now, uh they're
in a job they don't love, but they're
afraid to make a move. What is one thing
they should do this week?
>> I think you can role-play this new path
you might go towards. And part of this
I'm borrowing from a professor at
Stanford, Dave Evans. He talks about
like battle carding scenarios. So, the
same exercise we said where you could go
study this person, you could say, "Okay,
I'm going to be be out of here within 6
months." And create a digital like
role-play of, "Okay, I'm what am I going
to go do?" And you could do that for
maybe three different directions, right?
And roll around in it. Like scenario
plan. Mhm. Right? What is What is the
first Then once again, check you know,
an AI tool could help you do this. Okay,
I would like to repot myself into this
career within 6 months. What should the
first week look like? What It'll give
you something. It'll It'll spit
something out. And And you may disagree
with that. You may reorganize it, but
the thought process of going through
what it might look like will help you it
versus just being frozen. Yeah. And the
power is coming back to it every single
week with new data. Like I tried this.
Here's how it works.
>> did the battle card of like three
different ones, you know, I think you'll
start as you fill in the details, you'll
[snorts] start to have a sense of which
one you prefer. Whereas it it may just
be too abstract at the high level.
Thank you so much. I think it was very
useful and very practical. And I I
encourage everyone to read your book.
Can we show it? Running Down a Dream.
Love it. I love the name.
>> Thank you so much for having me on.
>> Thank you so much. If you enjoyed this
episode on the future work, you're going
to love my recent conversation with the
CEO of LinkedIn. We went deep on the
exact same topic. Link is right below.
Check it out, and I'll see you in the
next one.